README.md, before:

![banner](http://www.gura-lang.org/images/banner.png)

**Gura** is an iterator-oriented programming language that focuses on iterators
with improved functions for calculation and data processing.
It makes you be able to write an artificial code
for what used to need a lot of codes of repeat syntax.

The following **Gura** code prints content of a text file with line numbers.

    printf('%d %s', 1.., readlines('foo.txt'))

Official Site
-------------
http://www.gura-lang.org/


Build for Windows
-----------------
1. Check if Visual Studio 2010 has been installed. You can use Express version as well.

2. Run a batch file `gura\src\setup-gura-guest.bat`, which downloads necessary packages
   from Git repository (https://github.com/ypsitau/gura-guest.git) and build them.

   The batch file may occur an error that says it cannot find `vcvarsall.bat`.
   In such a case, you have to edit `gura\gura-guest\setup.bat`
   and modify `VCVARSALL` variable so that it points to a right directory of Visual Studio.

3. Open `gura\gura.sln` with Visual Studio 2010, switch the configuration to Release
   and build it.


Build for Linux
-----------------
1. Check if build tools such as C++ compiler, make, cmake and necessary libraries
   have been installed.

   For Ubuntu, do the following command.

        $ sudo apt-get install build-essential cmake libreadline-dev

   For RedHat, do the following command.

        $ sudo yum install gcc gcc-c++ make cmake readline-devel

2. Run the following commands to build **Gura** library and executable.

        $ git clone https://github.com/ypsitau/gura.git
        $ cd gura
        $ mkdir build
        $ cd build
        $ ../configure
        $ make

3. Run the following command to install **Gura** library and executable.

        $ sudo make install

   It may be a better idea to make package files of Debian or RPM for installation.
   See the section below to know how to do it.

4. Run the following command to build **Gura** modules files.

        $ ./build-modules

  This may occur an error because of lacking packages.
  In such a case, the script `build-modules` generates shell scripts
  with which you can easily setup necessary packages.
  Run `setup-gura-guest-deb.sh` for Ubuntu and `setup-gura-guest-rpm.sh` for RedHat.

5. Run the following command to install **Gura** module files.

        $ sudo ./build-modules install


Build Install Packages for Linux
--------------------------------
Generated Makefile is capable of creating both Debian and RPM install packages.

If you use Ubuntu, you have to install additional packages as following
so that the Makefile can make RPM package.

    $ sudo apt-get install rpm

Run the following command to create Debian and RPM packages.

    $ make package

You can install the package using an appropriate package manager as following.

For Ubuntu:

    $ sudo dpkg -i gura-x.x.x-Linux.deb

For RedHat:

    $ sudo rpm -i gura-x.x.x-Linux.rpm

Commit message:

deleted doc directory; document files are cloned from github repository

README.md, after:

![banner](http://www.gura-lang.org/images/banner.png)

**Gura** is an iterator-oriented programming language that focuses on iterators
with improved functions for calculation and data processing.
It makes you be able to write an artificial code
for what used to need a lot of codes of repeat syntax.

The following **Gura** code prints content of a text file with line numbers.

    printf('%d %s', 1.., readlines('foo.txt'))

Official Site
-------------
http://www.gura-lang.org/


Build for Windows
-----------------
1. Check if Visual Studio 2010 has been installed. You can use Express version as well.

2. Run a batch file `gura\src\setup-env-mswin.bat`, which downloads document files
   and necessary packages from Git repository and build libraries.

   The batch file may occur an error that says it cannot find `vcvarsall.bat`.
   In such a case, you have to edit `gura\gura-guest\setup.bat`
   and modify `VCVARSALL` variable so that it points to a right directory of Visual Studio.

3. Open `gura\gura.sln` with Visual Studio 2010, switch the configuration to Release
   and build it.


Build for Linux
-----------------
1. Check if build tools such as C++ compiler, make, cmake and necessary libraries
   have been installed.

   For Ubuntu, do the following command.

        $ sudo apt-get install build-essential cmake libreadline-dev

   For RedHat, do the following command.

        $ sudo yum install gcc gcc-c++ make cmake readline-devel

2. Run the following commands to build **Gura** library and executable.

        $ git clone https://github.com/ypsitau/gura.git
        $ cd gura
        $ mkdir build
        $ cd build
        $ ../configure
        $ make

3. Run the following command to install **Gura** library and executable.

        $ sudo make install

   It may be a better idea to make package files of Debian or RPM for installation.
   See the section below to know how to do it.

4. Run the following command to build **Gura** modules files.

        $ ./build-modules

  This may occur an error because of lacking packages.
  In such a case, the script `build-modules` generates shell scripts
  with which you can easily setup necessary packages.
  Run `setup-gura-guest-deb.sh` for Ubuntu and `setup-gura-guest-rpm.sh` for RedHat.

5. Run the following command to install **Gura** module files.

        $ sudo ./build-modules install


Build Install Packages for Linux
--------------------------------
Generated Makefile is capable of creating both Debian and RPM install packages.

If you use Ubuntu, you have to install additional packages as following
so that the Makefile can make RPM package.

    $ sudo apt-get install rpm

Run the following command to create Debian and RPM packages.

    $ make package

You can install the package using an appropriate package manager as following.

For Ubuntu:

    $ sudo dpkg -i gura-x.x.x-Linux.deb

For RedHat:

    $ sudo rpm -i gura-x.x.x-Linux.rpm
